This repository contains all the codes required for the analyses associated with the manuscript 'Linking by-caught cetacean traits to fishing techniques: insights from two species of small cetaceans'.
All codes were written in the R language, using R version 4.4.1 (2024-06-14 ucrt).

Two R files are included here ("Manuscript_data_analyses.qmd" and "Manuscript_data_analyses.qmd"), the first corresponding to data curation (uploading, selecting and formatting data) and the second corresponding to data analysis.
Two data files are also provided. The first is 'all_geo.rds', which contains all the spatial information required for data curation. The second, "ISIH-504549-espece_fao-20230320105303.txt", is a correspondence table linking FAO taxa identifiers to taxa names.

All other data required for analysis are not provided here.
The fisheries observer data (OBSMER data) and French officially reported by-catch data (SACROIS data) used in this study are owned by the French General Directorate of Maritime Affairs, Fisheries and Aquaculture (DGAMPA: https://www.mer.gouv.fr/peche-et-aquaculture; email: dpma@agriculture.gouv.fr) and are subject to access restrictions. These data are considered sensitive under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) of the European Union (Regulation EU 2016/679), and are not publicly available. However, they can be accessed by qualified researchers upon request through the Fishery Information System at IFREMER, via the following online form: https://sih.ifremer.fr/Donnees/Demande-de-donnees. The specific data query carried out for this study covers the years 2005 to 2023 for OBSMER and 2019 to 2023 for SACROIS.
The stranding data used in this study are owned by the Observatoire PELAGIS - Réseau National Échouage (National Stranding Network), UAR 3462, CNRS-La Rochelle University, and are available upon request (https://www.observatoire-pelagis.cnrs.fr/echouages/reseau-national-echouage/; email: pelagis @univ-lr.fr). The specific data query carried out for this study covers the years 2000 to 2022.
